There are a bunch of other useful
plugins that, once you have,
let's say, the textiles in place,
there are a bunch of interesting ones.
And, like, honestly,
I don't have a favorite, per se,
because it really depends on
the output that you need.
One that I used to use a lot,
is this CSS gen?
And what's cool about this one
is you can have CSS variables or
if you use Sass or less,
you can do that too.
And you can say, if you want hex values,
I don't have any color.
I might have a color in there or
something like that, but colors,
you can choose what modes you want.
Cool, cool, cool, root font size so for
the sort of RAM question I got earlier,
right?
It will produce RAM add prefix or
not, let's sit no.
Use RAM font size.
We don't need to add a style description.
And then hold on my screen is now
more zoomed in than it was, but
we can kinda see.
We'll generate, and
this one will actually generate a whole
bunch of CSS classes that you can use,
right?
And so you could theoretically
drop this into your like,
literally CSS file and
now have all of the typography using
your designs available as CSS
classes that you can just use.
So now what's really powerful about this
is if I click on any of these fonts,
I can see that it is text-9L
typography light, right?
And I know just through looking
at it that there is a CSS class.
Now I'm not sitting there going, okay, so
it's like a size 96 font and
this line spacing.
It generated all of that.
I use the class, I move on with my life, I
can go back to looking at guitars, right?
I ship the ticket a lot faster.
There is another one that I really like.
There's variables to CSS and
then there's also, there's a one similar
that will like make it to CSS variables
instead of CSS classes, right?
Like whatever your code base best,
but like generally speaking,
once you have an organized set of styles
and or variables when we get to them, like
there are ways to then take all the hard
work of manually translating all of that.
And auto-generate at least
the foundational components of how you
implement it in CSS, right?
So predominantly, because we can
also do colors with variables, and
you'll see why you might want to do
colors with variables later, it's tricky.
But let's just see how you can
also do it in styles as well.
If I look at these,
they're kind of nicely,
I grabbed this from something
that generated variables.
You can see that the name
of this layer is 50, right?
That's not necessarily what I want.
I'd love it to be called primary 50,
right?
So how do I deal with this?
I bulk-rename them.
So your job just real quick go in here and
grab you don't have to do all of them grab
whatever color makes you happiest, right?
Run the batch rename, run styler, right?
Generate at least the styles for
the colors and get a sense of that, and
then we'll meet back up, and
I'll kind of go through it with you.
All right, so our mission but
there's a little,
little nuance to it since trying to
undo a completed one, one edge case,
which is these technically aren't layers
since I was gonna get angry with me which
I figured out by just eavesdropping
on y'all during the break.
So, yeah, I think, like,
when I go back and edit this,
I'll make these into actual layers trying
to take an existing color palette and
on color palette,
I had one edge case of in consider.
But theoretically, let's pretend we lived
in a happy place where that worked.
You could bulk rename them all and
run Styler.
Just like we did for the fonts.
That said, I'm not willing to invest more
time in this because I don't want color
styles, I want color variables.
So like spending time doing that,
it's not interesting to me.
Cool.
One thing I wanna talk about is this
works for an existing type system.
This works for
existing color palette, right?
However, I made this colorful palette,
and you can too, and
you can make your own type system, right,
using something called math, right?
Now I'm a liberal arts major, so
I will not be doing the math.
I will be employing
computers to do math for me.
So let's go ahead and try out,
but for the typefaces,
one that I like is called typescales,
and you can run it.
And you can deal with the fact that
my screen is a lot smaller
than it was before.
Actually, I can see all
the parts that are important.
There's a few more fonts down here, but
my increased resolution is
hurting our feelings right now.
But what's cool about it,
you can set the base size for the RAM.
16 is like standard, so
we'll keep that you can choose
the way that the fonts scale.
There seems to be some kind of
music reference going on here.
You pick major third, you can pick a minor
third, golden ratio that makes you happy.
You can also see how
all this stuff matters.
You can pick the line height, how many
sizes above the base you want, and
how many below that you want, and whether
or not you want to round the values or
not, I don't ever want to live in
a world with a 61.488 pixel font.
So I'm gonna choose around the values,
and we hit generate,
and it creates a frame with all
of those font sizes ready to go.
And for the trick that I
wanted to show you before,
we can grab each of these, right?
If you hold command that trick
we saw in the beginning,
as long as you don't get like this is,
I'll add another frame hiding under there.
Get rid of that,
if I hold command, I can create,
grab just the nested ones, right?
And like, so now I've got each one
of those and like, theoretically,
if I ran Styler, I would get a bunch
of styles called type at 9, type at 12,
type at whatever.
If I wanted to bulk rename these things,
that's where I can hit command r.
And I could say, instead of type at,
We can say like whatever,
and like you can rename
the numbers if you want to, but
you can rename these to whatever you want,
and then you could theoretically
run Styler on them.
Right?
Created nine new typefaces.
There's one for bulk replacing fonts.
This will do it in, I believe,
enters the default one,
now they're in style, so if you need
to adjust it, yeah, it's Enter.
You can also replace the font,
stuff along those lines, right?
Like, ideally, as an engineer,
like the design team,
probably has come up with some
kind of typography system.
But if you find yourself at
a startup playing designer,
because you are the only front end
engineer, I was like three years ago,
this is good, because have I read a book
on type systems and color theory?
Yes.
Do I really trust myself?
I don't.
And so this will go ahead and kind of
get you some of the basics as well,
and then you can use some of these tools
to bulk create the styles that you want.
You might have to do some
little manual renaming, but
the overall time investment
is not that much,
particularly if you don't have
a bunch of people staring at you.
You kind of just do it
during something else.
It's a little bit of clicking,
but you can kind of like,
get through it all pretty quickly.
There's still a piece of me that
wants to slay this beast, but
I'm not going to right now.
All these seem like bad ideas, okay?
But the same basic approach works for
any styles that we wanna create in bulk.
The other thing we can do is
to create a color system.
There are a lot of different tools for
this.
The one that I like is again,
I happen to use Tailwind at work.
None of this is Tailwind specific.
I mean, that one is definitely Tailwind
specific, but this one is not.
This comes from a website
called uicolors.app, right?
Which you can also go visit, but
what this does is it allows
you to pick a color, right?
And then it creates all
the various shades for you, and
what's even nicer is it can generate
a color guide like these ones
that I tried to reverse engineer and
failure.
And it will also create
either the styles or
the variables for you as well, right?
And so you can define that base color,
tweak it however you want and
then like have it say, hey, create styles.
It will give it a default name.
In this case, there is, I've used
multiple, like color palette apps, and
they all will give the same
color the same name.
So there's clearly some JavaScript
library that everyone uses.
But we're gonna talk a little bit
about color names versus semantic
names in a little bit right but
like one would argue in no world do you
really want this called fountain blue?
You either want to call it like primary
brand, information danger error, or blue.
Fountain blue seems oddly specific
unless you have 17 other blues,
so we can call this blue, and
we say, create the styles.
And you can see that it
generated a color palette,
much like the one that I accidentally
tried to have as reverse engineer.
And then if we go into the color styles,
you can see that I created all of
these blues that we can now use
without ever having to think
about the hex code ever again.
And again it also helps making sure that
we have consistency across the designs
because it is a lot easier to
accidentally just drag and
drop that little like color wheel in
a design than it is to look up yet
another hex code, right and
implement that stuff, right?
Like, it's not that big a deal
when you're working on design.
It's a bit big deal when
you're implementing it.
So this will create all that for
you as well.
If you need to get rid of these you
can also just scroll up, hit Shift.
No.
Maybe not that I don't think and go across
the boundaries of the different sections.
Hit Shift and delete lots of things.
I do entire sections.
Yeah I can, right?
And so you can go ahead and
delete them if you don't want them.
Now styler will like also like, again we
saw before, you rename a thing, and it can
handle renaming so you don't have to leave
stuff if you're just trying to rename it.
But we don't want all these styles right
now, because they were just us playing
around, but I want to delete all of them
in front of you because that's boring.
So styles, I would say at this
point at the time of recording,
I mostly only use styles for
layout grids, shadows, and typography.
When variables come to typography,
I will probably use variables fat for
reasons I will show you in a little bit.
There are things that variables don't
support, even though they support colors.
For instance, linear gradients,
styles only, right?
And so there's a time and
a place to still use styles.
And if you're like, I don't really
understand when I'm supposed to see
a style and when I'm supposed
to see a variable, welcome.
It's like a weird, like,
transitionary period at the time of
this recording, that is a valid thing.
If you have a bunch of styles, right, one
could run the styles to variables plugin.
Why you might use this even if you don't
have a bunch of styles is it a lot of
cases there is more tooling for generating
a bunch of styles than there are for
generating a bunch of variables.
So sometimes it makes sense to
generate a bunch of styles and
then create variables off of that.
There are plugins where you can
theoretically throw in a picture, and
it will generate a color
palette from that picture.
That seems cute, it's really useful.
You throw in like a screenshot of your
current UI, and you have a generated color
palette based off the current UI,
which is a lot better than what I did,
which is sit there with a color picker for
30 minutes and select them one by one.
So that's another way to do it.
Depending on what situation you're in,
there is usually a tool that exists
that makes your life somewhat easier.